Spruce up BuildFromSource docs based on feedback (#26707)
dotnet/aspnetcore: docs/BuildFromSource.md

For more info on issues related to build infrastructure and ongoing work, see <https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/labels/area-infrastructure>.

## Step 0: Getting started

This tutorial assumes that you are familiar with:

- Git
- Command line fundamentals in your operating system of choice

## Step 1: Clone the source code

ASP.NET Core uses git submodules to include the source from a few other projects. In order to pull the sources of the these submodules when cloning the repo, be sure to pass the `--recursive` flag to the `git clone` command.

```ps1
git clone --recursive https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore
```

If you've already cloned the aspnetcore repo without fetching subdmoule sources, you can fetch them after cloning by running the following command.

```ps1
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

> :bulb: Some ISPs have been know to use web filtering software that has caused issues with git repository cloning, if you experience issues cloning this repo please review <https://help.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/using-ssh-over-the-https-port>.

## Step 2: Install pre-requisites

> Developing the aspnetcore repo requires some additional tools to build the source code and run integration tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Developing in the aspnetcore repo requires some additional tools to build the source code and run integration tests.
```

### On Windows

Building ASP.NET Core on Windows (10, version 1803 or newer) requires that you have the following tooling installed.

> :bulb: Be sure you have least 10 GB of disk space and a good Internet connection. The build scripts will download several tools and dependencies onto your machine.

**[Visual Studio 2019](https://visualstudio.com)**

Visual Studio 2019 (16.8) is required to build the repo locally. If you don't have visual studio installed you can run [eng/scripts/InstallVisualStudio.ps1](/eng/scripts/InstallVisualStudio.ps1) to install the exact required dependencies.

> > :bulb: By default, the script will install Visual Studio Enterprise Edition, however you can use a different edition by passing the `-Edition` flag.

Reviewer: Suggest adding another `:bulb:` that mentions `-Channel Preview` to install the very latest. This may be necessary at the moment because 16.8 remains in preview.

> > Even if you have installed Visual Studio, still recommend you should use this script to install again to avoid errors due to missing components just in case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Even if you have installed Visual Studio, we still recommend using this script to install again to avoid errors due to missing components.
```

```ps1

> PS> ./eng/scripts/InstallVisualStudio.ps1  [-Edition {Enterprise|Community|Professional}]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PS> ./eng/scripts/InstallVisualStudio.ps1  [-Edition {Enterprise|Community|Professional}] [-Channel {Release|Preview}]
```

```

> > :bulb: To allow executing the setup script, you may need to update the execution policy on your machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> :bulb: To execute the setup script or other PowerShell scripts in the repo, you may need to update the execution policy on your machine.
```

> You can do so by running the `Set-ExecutionPolicy -ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned -Scope CurrentUser` command
> in PowerShell. For more information on execution policies, you can read the [execution policy docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.security/set-executionpolicy).

> If you already have Visual Studio installed, you can use the installation script above to ensure that you have the correct components installed.

Reviewer: Suggest removing this line. It's redundant given https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pull/26707/files#diff-a7fae696e4f4a8d72dea5e224d7463bcR45

> The  [global.json](/global.json) and [eng/scripts/vs.json](/eng/scripts/vs.json) provide a description of the components required to support building the repo.

Reviewer: Suggest adding a note that global.json only specifies the minimum requirements to build from the command line i.e. that file ensures the native builds (which use desktop `msbuild`) can work. Need the additional components from vs.json to build within Visual Studio.

Suggest also mentioning that InstallVisualStudio.ps1 uses vs.json by default.

NodeJS installes the Node package manager (npm) by default. This repo depends on yarn, an alternate package manager for the Node ecosystem. You can install Yarn from the command line using the following command.

```ps1
npm install -g yarn
```

**Java Development Kit**

This repo contains some Java source code that depends on an install of the JDK v11 or newer. The JDK can be installed from either:
  * OpenJDK <https://jdk.java.net/>
  * Oracle's JDK <https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html>

Alternatively, you can run [eng/scripts/InstallJdk.ps1](/eng/scripts/InstallJdk.ps1) to install a version of the JDK that will only be used in this repo.

```ps1
PS> ./eng/scripts/InstallJdk.ps1
```

The build should find any JDK 11 or newer installation on the machine as long as the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable is set. Typically, your installation will do this automatically. However, if it is not set you can set the environment variable manually:
      * Set `JAVA_HOME` to `RepoRoot/.tools/jdk/win-x64/` if you used the `InstallJdk.ps1` script.
      * Set `JAVA_HOME` to `C:/Program Files/Java/jdk<version>/` if you installed the JDK globally.

**Chrome**

> This repo contains a Selenium-based tests require a version of Chrome to be installed. Download and install it from <https://www.google.com/chrome>

Reviewer: May want to mention installing the WiX toolkit from https://wixtoolset.org/releases/ if users want to test building the Windows installers.

### On macOS/Linux

> You can also build ASP.NET Core on macOS or Linux. macOS Sierra or newer is required if you're building on macOS. If you're building on Linux, your machine will need to meet the [].NET Core Linux preequisities](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/linux-prerequisites).

Reviewer: Fix typo breaking the link here:
```suggestion
You can also build ASP.NET Core on macOS or Linux. macOS Sierra or newer is required if you're building on macOS. If you're building on Linux, your machine will need to meet the [.NET Core Linux preequisities](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/linux-prerequisites).
```

> :bulb: Be sure you have least 10 GB of disk space and a good Internet connection. The build scripts will download several tools and dependencies onto your machine.

**curl/wget**

`curl` and `wget` are command line tools that can be used to download files from an HTTP server. Either utility will need to be installed in order to complete the setup. Typically, these will be included on your machine by default.

If netier utility is installed, you can install curl (https://curl.haxx.se) or wget (https://www.gnu.org/software/wget).

> **Git**

Reviewer: Say something in this section

**[NodeJS](https://nodejs.org)**

Building the repo requires version 10.14.2 or newer of Node. You can find installation executables for Node at https://nodejs.org.

**[Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/)**

NodeJS installes the Node package manager (npm) by default. This repo depends on yarn, an alternate package manager for the Node ecosystem. You can install Yarn from the command line using the following command.

```bash
$ npm install -g yarn
```

**Java Development Kit**

This repo contains some Java source code that depends on an install of the JDK v11 or newer. The JDK can be installed from either:
  * OpenJDK <https://jdk.java.net/>
  * Oracle's JDK <https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html>

> Similar to the instructions above for Windows, be sure that the the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable is set to the location of your Java installation.

Reviewer: Link "above" to previous section❔

## Step 3: Build the repo

Before opening our .sln/.slnf files in Visual Studio or VS Code, you will need to build the repo locally.

> ### On Visual Studio

Reviewer: I don't know why but I usually hear "from the command line" or "on the command line" but always "in Visual Studio".
```suggestion
### In Visual Studio
```

> To build a version of the repo locally, you'll need to execute the following command.

Reviewer: This command doesn't build anything except the `RepoTasks` project. The ordering here is specific to the case where users want to build from Visual Studio or VS Code.

```ps1
PS1> .\restore.cmd

> ```

Reviewer: Suggest mentioning `./restore.sh` as well

> This will download the required tools and build the entire repository once. At that point, you should be able

Reviewer: No, it will download packages and some required tools but won't build anything but `RepoTasks`.

Author: I copied some text that already existed in the docs but I guess this was incorrect. I've tweaked this now.

if you want to work on Blazor WebAssembly, you'll need to launch the solution file for that project by changing into the `src/Components`
directory and executing `startvs.cmd` in that directory like so:

```ps1
PS1> cd src\Components
PS1> .\startvs.cmd
```

#### A brief interlude on solution files

We have a single .sln file for all of ASP.NET Core, but most people don't work with it directly because Visual Studio
doesn't currently handle projects of this scale very well.

Instead, we have many Solution Filter (.slnf) files which include a sub-set of projects. See the Visual Studio
documentation [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/ide/filtered-solutions?view=vs-2019) for more
information about Solution Filters.

These principles guide how we create and manage .slnf files:

1. Solution files are not used by CI or command line build scripts. They are meant for use by developers only.
2. Solution files group together projects which are frequently edited at the same time.
3. Can't find a solution that has the projects you care about? Feel free to make a PR to add a new .slnf file.

> 

Reviewer: nit: extra line

> ### On Visual Studio Code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### In Visual Studio Code
```

### On macOS/Linux

You can also build ASP.NET Core on macOS or Linux. macOS Sierra or newer is required if you're building on macOS. If you're building on Linux, your machine will need to meet the [.NET Core Linux preequisities](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/linux-prerequisites).

> :bulb: Be sure you have least 10 GB of disk space and a good Internet connection. The build scripts will download several tools and dependencies onto your machine.

#### curl/wget

`curl` and `wget` are command line tools that can be used to download files from an HTTP server. Either utility will need to be installed in order to complete the setup. Typically, these will be included on your machine by default.

If netier utility is installed, you can install curl (https://curl.haxx.se) or wget (https://www.gnu.org/software/wget).

##### Git

If you've made it this far, you've already got `Git` installed. Sit back, relax, and move on to the next requirement.

#### [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org)

Building the repo requires version 10.14.2 or newer of Node. You can find installation executables for Node at https://nodejs.org.

#### [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/)

> NodeJS installes the Node package manager (npm) by default. This repo depends on yarn, an alternate package manager for the Node ecosystem. You can install Yarn from the command line using the following command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NodeJS installs the Node package manager (npm) by default. This repo depends on yarn, an alternate package manager for the Node ecosystem. You can install Yarn from the command line using the following command.
```

Similar to [the instructions above for Windows](#java-development-kit-in-windows), be sure that the the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable is set to the location of your Java installation.

## Step 3: Build the repo

Before opening our .sln/.slnf files in Visual Studio or VS Code, you will need to build the repo locally.

### In Visual Studio

To set up your project for development on Visual Studio, you'll need to execute the following command.

```ps1
PS1> .\restore.cmd
```

> :bulb: If you happen to be working on macOS or Linux, you can use the `restore.sh` command.

This will download the required tools and restore all projects inside the repository. At that point, you should be able
to open the .sln file or one of the project specific .slnf files to work on the projects you care about.

   > :bulb: Pro tip: you will also want to run this command after pulling large sets of changes. On the master
   > branch, we regularly update the versions of .NET Core SDK required to build the repo.
   > You will need to restart Visual Studio every time we update the .NET Core SDK.

To open the solution file in Visual Studio, run the following command.

```ps1

> PS1> .\startvs.cmd

Reviewer 2: I don't think it does - the root `startvs.cmd` makes you name a project, so it only does this if you say `.\startvs.cmd AspNetCore.sln`.

Author: Fixed.

if you want to work on Blazor WebAssembly, you'll need to launch the solution file for that project by changing into the `src/Components`
directory and executing `startvs.cmd` in that directory like so:

```ps1
PS1> cd src\Components
PS1> .\startvs.cmd
```

After opening the solution in Visual Studio, you can build/rebuild using the controls in Visual Studio.

#### A brief interlude on solution files

We have a single .sln file for all of ASP.NET Core, but most people don't work with it directly because Visual Studio
doesn't currently handle projects of this scale very well.

Instead, we have many Solution Filter (.slnf) files which include a sub-set of projects. See the Visual Studio
documentation [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/ide/filtered-solutions?view=vs-2019) for more
information about Solution Filters.

These principles guide how we create and manage .slnf files:

1. Solution files are not used by CI or command line build scripts. They are meant for use by developers only.
2. Solution files group together projects which are frequently edited at the same time.

> 3. Can't find a solution that has the projects you care about? Feel free to make a PR to add a new .slnf file.

Reviewer 2: We should probably make a note that VS 4 Mac doesn't currently support slnf files, but that work is on their backlog, and will hopefully be coming soon.

Author: Added.

By default, all of the C# projects are built. Some C# projects require NodeJS to be installed to compile JavaScript assets which are then checked in as source. If NodeJS is detected on the path, the NodeJS projects will be compiled as part of building C# projects. If NodeJS is not detected on the path, the JavaScript assets checked in previously will be used instead. To disable building NodeJS projects, specify `-noBuildNodeJS` or `--no-build-nodejs` on the command line.

## Step 4: Make your code changes

At this point, you will have all the dependencies installed and a code editor to up and running to make changes in. Once you've made changes, you will need to rebuild the project locally to pick up your changes. You'll also need to run tests locally to verify that your changes worked.

The section below provides some helpful guides for using the `dotnet` CLI in the ASP.NET Core repo.

> ## Using `dotnet` on command line in this repo

Reviewer: Suggest moving some of this into a new part of step 3 describing building on the command line. That should introduce `.\build.cmd` and `./build.sh` as well as sourcing `.\activate.ps1` or `./activate.sh`. Note that building projects in VS Code requires starting VS Code from the command line in which you've activated the local `.dotnet/` installation.

Author: Moved some of the content there.

The `build.cmd` is configurable enough that it might merit its own docs page to showcase all the different combinations.

source ./activate.sh
```

> > :bulb: Be sure to set the environment variables using the script above before executing the `dotnet` command inside the repo.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> :bulb: Be sure to set the environment variables using the "activate" script above before executing the `dotnet` command inside the repo.
```

./build.sh --test
```

> > :bulb: If you're working on changes for a particular subset of the project, you might not want to execute the entire test suite. Instead, only run the tests within the subdirectory where changes were made.

Reviewer 3: Does `build.cmd` have a way to execute a particular subset of test? or do we need to activate and then do `dotnet test`?

Reviewer: Yes, e.g. `.\build.cmd -test -projects .\src\Framework\test\Microsoft.AspNetCore.App.UnitTests.csproj`. You could add `-noBuild` to that command line if the build is already completely up-to-date.

Reviewer 3: Awesome! thanks.

### Common error: Unable to locate the .NET Core SDK

Executing `.\restore.cmd` or `.\build.cmd` may produce these errors:

> error : Unable to locate the .NET Core SDK. Check that it is installed and that the version specified in global.json (if any) matches the installed version.
> error MSB4236: The SDK 'Microsoft.NET.Sdk' specified could not be found.

In most cases, this is because the option _Use previews of the .NET Core SDK_ in VS2019 is not checked. Start Visual Studio, go to _Tools > Options_ and check _Use previews of the .NET Core SDK_ under _Environment > Preview Features_.

### Common error: HTTP Error 500.33 - ANCM Request Handler Load Failure

The [ASP.NET Core Module](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/host-and-deploy/aspnet-core-module) (ANCM) for IIS is not supported when running projects in this repository.

After using `startvs.cmd` to open a solution in Visual Studio, the Kestrel web host option must be used (name of the project) and not IIS Express.

Example of running the `MvcSandbox` project:

`.\startvs.cmd .\src\Mvc\Mvc.sln`

> ![Web host options in Visual Studio](./vs-iis-express-aspnet-core-mvc-sandbox.jpg)

Reviewer 2: We should add a common error here for people building servicing tags that have `darc-int` feeds, and how to deal with it.

Author: I think it would make sense to put this under the DARC guides that we have in ReferenceResolution.md. TBH, I'm not aware of this particular issue but @dougbu or @wtgodbe might be able to provide some text here.

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
![Web host options in Visual Studio](./vs-iis-express-aspnet-core-mvc-sandbox.jpg)

### Common error: error : Unable to load the service index for &hellip;

When attempting to restore servicing tags e.g. `v3.1.7`,  the NuGet.config file may contain internal feeds that are not accessible. This will result in errors such as

``` text
...\aspnetcore\.dotnet\sdk\3.1.103\NuGet.targets(123,5): error : Unable to load the service index for source https://pkgs.dev.azure.com/dnceng/_packaging/darc-int-dotnet-extensions-784b0ffa/nuget/v3/index.json. [...\Temp\1gsd3rdo.srb\restore.csproj] [...\.nuget\packages\microsoft.dotnet.arcade.sdk\1.0.0-beta.20213.4\tools\Tools.proj]
```

The `darc-int-...` feeds in NuGet.config are used only when building internally and are not needed after the tags are created. Delete all such entries in the file and retry.
~~~
